# IS6813-Group-Project
This is a repository for our MSBA program. It is a group project for Swire Coca-Cola and we are trying to understand why customers abandon their cart based on their behaviors.
## Business Problem
Swire Coca-Cola has begun the use of its new digital ordering platform, MyCoke360, and it has been running for a little over a year. Cart abandonment is something all businesses have to worry about, and Swire is no different. In this context, cart abandonment is described as when a customer adds items to their cart, but does not make a purchase before their next order date. This abandonment can lead to a loss in revenue. Swire has tasked us with identifying what tends to influence a customer to abandon their carts. 
## Solution
Our solution is to test different models that can help us understand which variables influence a cart that is abandoned and what leads customers to leaving their cart. We want to investigate what variables could influence customers and what actions they take within their carts. The summarized user actions logistic regression had an AUC of 0.895. This high AUC means the model was able to rank order windows by their likelihood of abandonment. We found a strong lift ratio of 4.8 between the top 10% versus the overall rate. We were able to gain valuable insights about what behaviors play a role in cart abandonment. The strongest predictor was browsing without starting the checkout process which had an odds ratio of 26.4 and the next predictor was removing an item after adding one, with an odds of 4.5. Some other behaviors were the amount of times the user updated their cart and how many times they removed items. This shows customer indecision leads to cart abandonment the most.
## Contribution
Carl - Completed the missing data and results section of the EDA. In the individual EDA, was able to take a random sample of the data for analysis. Used the data to find the relationship between the customer device used and abandonment. Also, found customer events with positive lift (commonly found in abandonment). Created a logistic regression and random forest model in the individual r file to be used as a reference for the group code. Completed the modeling process and results writing section.

Claranne - Completed the introduction and data description part of the EDA. Assisted with the cleaning of all datasets and added variables like grouping events in the google analytics, negative revenue in the sales, and if there was a purchase in the orders table. Used the grouped events to see what path a customer might take if they make a purchase or abandon their cart. Created basic logistic regression, random forest, xgboost, and lasso models. Also worked to create the order window and target variable. Completed introduction, data preparation, and model performance writing sections.

Bryson - Was in charge of putting together all of the code into one document. Took each individual’s code and used what was necessary to complete the EDA. Assisted with the cleaning of the google analytics and visits datasets. Found the number of events each customer has before purchasing, as well as the mobile devices used. Also added key comments within code chunks and included insight into what the visualizations showed. Created the performance benchmark and decision tree models. Joined the orders and google analytics datasets to get the whole order history. Organized the notebook, bringing together everyone’s code.
## Business Value
We were unable to quantify the value our model provided, but we believe our recommendations will deliver a lower abandonment rate and less revenue loss. We recommended to add a personalized live chat, need help pop-up, save cart option, or send items to email button. We believe adding functions like these to the website will help limit the high risk behaviors and lower cart abandonment. We also suggested to include a customer's sales history when intervening to be sure to save customers that produced the greatest revenue for the company. Targeting customers that are the greatest risk of abandonment and produce revenue for the company will be the most cost efficient way for the company to go about this problem.
## Challenges
We faced a few challenges with this project. The main issues we had was creating the order window. With the order windows changing and combining cutoff times with anchor dates and frequency made it difficult to put it all together. We also had troubles with our some of our models. We had a suspiciously high AUC score which could likely mean overfitting or data leakage. Due to time constraints, we were unable to solve this issue. We do wish we had more time to explore other variables that could impact cart abandonment.  
## What we learned
We learned how to work well as a group, and consider all members' ideas. We also learned how to work with real world data and challenges that come along with that. 
